ON THE LAST QUESTION OF STEFAN BANACH
(It is interesting to note that the same 1936–1937 issue of Comptes Rendus des S ́eances de la Soci ́et ́e des Sciences et des Lettres de Varsovie in which S lupecki’s paper was published, contains the paper [We2] of Donald L. Webb, a fresh PhD from Caltech and the author of the already mentioned [We1], in which he extends the results of the latter paper. 
This, among other things, suggests that developments in this branch of logical calculi on both sides of Atlantic did not proceed in isolation at that time). 
Earlier, another Lukasiewicz student, Mordchaj Wajsberg has reported at the Lukasiewicz–Tarski seminar some related results – see a brief description at the very end (“Anmerkung”) of [Wa] (cf. also Surma [Su, §ix]). 
In the same paper, more binary maps generating all maps of arbitrary arity on a finite set are presented without proof. 
Some of the Wajsberg’s results apparently go back as early as 1927, i.e. almost a decade before Webb.
More logical calculi, both complete and incomplete, were developed around this time, first of all, by Emil Leon Post (born in Poland, otherwise not related to that country§), as well as by Lukasiewicz, S lupecki, Boles law Soboci ́nski (another PhD student of Lukasiewicz), Eustachy  ̇Zyli ́nski (professor of the Lvov University in 1919–1941), Zygmunt Zawirski, and others.
Post’s purely formal treatment of many-valued logics (“a combinatorial scheme” in the words of Mostowski [Mo, p. 3]) is, perhaps, closer in spirit to mathematical questions considered here than the philosophical attitude of Lukasiewicz.
Another feature of the work of Lukasiewicz’s school and Polish logicians in general, was the constant quest for minimal, as far as possible, systems of axioms for that or another logical calculus. 
Minimality was understood both in terms of the number of axioms and their length (cf., e.g., [Wo1, pp. 390–391] and [Su, §v]). 
Banach’s claim and question resonate well with this line of thought, as they can be phrased as follows: if a certain 3-term operation in an n-valued logic is not generated by a 2-term one (alas, as we have seen, this is wrong), the next best thing to ask is to extend the 3-term operation so that it will be generated that way.
Of course, many further results about Hilbert’s 13th problem, from one side, and functional completeness and incompleteness of various logical calculi, from the other, were obtained afterwards (cf., e.g., the survey by Vitushkin [V] for the former, and the book by Lau [L] for the latter), but their discussion will bring us far away from our main topic.
2. Clones of analytic and ordered maps, counting superpositions, examples to Banach’s claim