The anomalous triangle diagram gives a coefficient of 5/9 to the 2-flavour CME but 2/3 for the 3-flavour CME.
It results in a relative CME current difference of 1/6 between 2-flavour and 3-flavour cases.
However, because the traditional experimental observable γ of charge azimuthal correlation includes all inclusive charged hadrons, it limits one’s ability to measure the relative difference.
Recently, the ALICE collaboration measured the identified hadron triggered charge azimuthal correlation, e.g. kaon-hadron correlation, which enables us to access the flavour property of the CME.
Another advantage of kaon-hadron correlation is that it can avoid the contamination from ρ meson decay, which presumably plays a significant influence on the CME observable.
In this work, we implement a multiphase transport (AMPT) model to investigate the flavour dependence of the CME.
In our previous work, we imported the initial CME-like dipole charge separation to the AMPT model with a constant separation percentage, and found that though the original AMPT model can reproduce 60–70% magnitude of the CME observable γ in Au+Au collisions at 200 GeV, an initial charge separation percentage of ∼10% is needed to closely match the STAR data, and demonstrate that final state interactions strongly suppress the initial CME effect.
In this work, we will improve our method to study the γ correlators in Pb+Pb collisions at 2.76 TeV, by taking two following improvements into account.
Firstly, we use a centrality-dependent charge separation percentage which is assumed to be proportional to the magnitude of magnetic field in Pb+Pb collisions, which is more reasonable for simulating the CME.
Secondly, we consider both 2-flavour and 3-flavour cases for the initial charge separation to mimic the 2-flavour and 3-flavour CME effect, while we only considered two flavours of quarks (u and d) in our previous work.
This paper is organized as follows.
We give a short introduction of our model and the method to introduce the 2-flavour and 3-flavour dipole charge separations in Sec. .
In Sec. , we present our simulation results and expand some discussions.
Finally, we summarize in Sec. .
The AMPT Model
We implemented the AMPT model with string melting mechanism in this study.
The AMPT model, which is a Monte Carlo hybrid transport model, includes four main stages of relativistic heavy-ion collisions, i.e. initial condition, parton cascade, hadronization, and hadronic rescatterings.
The initial condition, which includes the spatial and momentum
